Cockpit 238 (#380)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2021-02-16-cockpit-238.md

---
title: Cockpit 238
author: kkoukiou
date: 2021-02-17
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-238
category: release
summary: Cockpit with restyled updates page
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 238.

> ### Updates: Show the list of services and applications that are outdated

Reviewer: Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
### Updates: List outdated software that needs a restart
```

Author: This is a bit vague about what restart meant, reboot or restart service. Therefore I kept it out of the header.

Reviewer: Right, but the point is to restart the software when needed, not show a list.

Previously, we required a system reboot after every update. We now use [Tracer](http://tracer-package.com/)
to display the list of services and applications that are outdated and need to be restarted or require a system reboot.

If there are not such services not system reboot will be suggested.

![Update no restart](/images/update-no-restart.png)

If there are such services, the user will be asked to either to restart these or schedule a system reboot.

![Update with restart](/images/update-with-restart.png)

> ### Web server: Do not change permissions of administrator provided certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Web server: Preserve permissions of administrator-provided certificates
```

Author: Preserve here, implies that we are actually doing something no?

On the other hand this was really a bug where i changed the certificated permission when we should not do that, therefore i prefer the previous option that martin suggested, since it shows that we don't change the original permissions.

Not strong opinion here though.

Reviewer: Preserve says we're not changing it.

Hyphen is needed in this usage.

Cockpit's web server supports and encourages [using your own TLS certificate/key](https://cockpit-project.org/guide/latest/https.html#https-certificates) in `/etc/cockpit/ws-certs.d/`.
Previously, starting cockpit would adjust the file permissions and SELinux context of administrator provided
certificates.  But commonly such files are shared with other services, in which case the permission changes could render
the file inaccessible for these other services.

Now cockpit only adjusts the permissions of certificate files which it creates and manages itself, in particular
`0-self-signed.cert` and `10-ipa.cert`. If you provide your own certificate, you must make sure yourself that these are
readable by the `cockpit-ws` user or group.

> ### System: Performance page shows up to 16 cores

Author: I think we should write 'shows the busiest CPU cores'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### System: Performance page shows busiest CPU cores
```

OK :+1:

> ### System: The performance metrics page now shows up to 16 cores ordered by their load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### System: Performance page orders 16 or fewer cores by load
```

Author: I find the replacement sentence confusing. It's not really the function of the page to order the CPU cores by load. Plus, that features s not about the ordering so much, but about showing these.

Reviewer: Ah, then that means I misunderstood your heading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### System: Performance page shows up to 16 cores, ordered by load
```

But, really, the order doesn't matter, does it?

```suggestion
### System: Performance page shows up to 16 cores
```

![CPU cores metrics](/images/metrics-cores.png)

> ### Machines: Custom path when creating new VM disks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Machines: VM disk creation supports a custom path
```

You can now use a custom path when adding disks to a VM. This can be either pointing
to a disk image file or an ISO which will be attached as a CDROM device.

![Machines](/images/disk-iso.png)

### Try it out

Cockpit 237 is available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
 * [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/238)
 * [Cockpit Fedora 32]()

>  * [Cockpit Fedora 33]()

Reviewer 2: Also needs F34 now
